Welcome back! So, in this video we're going to start getting
ourselves into the great habit of writing constructors for all of our classes,
so that every time a instance pops out of the mold we
also make sure that we set it off in the right direction. So, this is a bit
like powering up computers, when they come off the factory line and
setting their state, loading software onto them, right. So, the mold makes computers,
the class pops out computer instances, but what the constructor does is it basically
loads the software into the computer, as it leaves the factory, so that you get all that annoying
default software and stuff. So, that's what we're doing here but in a good way! By the
end of it what we'll have is, when we instantiate the new game we'll actually know
what its state it, because we'll know that this is being reset automatically,
and we'll actually be calling the BCGame.Reset() function. And knowing
that we have complete control over when the game state is set
back to try one and maximum tries. So all good stuff! Let's dive in and see how it works!
So, let's dive right in and see what a constructor
is! The way that you create a constructor is to
just take the name of the class and make a method
with that name. So, what I've put at the top of the header file
is the constructor.
Now, there is actually something called a destructor, which we won't bother with
now, but it's the same thing with a twiddle in front.
OK, so that is a constructor! When you first create the object,
instantiate the object here, and we make this thing called BCGame. It comes out of the mold.
Right, this is the mold and this instance pop out the mold, then it's going to
look for a constructor, and if there's any code in the constructor it's going to
run it. So, we've declared a constructor. Let's go ahead now and define
that constructor. There it is! Here's the constructor! So,
let's imagine, for example, that, that reset
one of these guys. Let's see which one of these takes precedent and see what happens. So, we've got
MyCurrentTry and MyMaxTries is 5 and 1, respectively.
Let's, in the constructor, try setting these values to
silly values, OK. Both 666 or something.
So let's see if this works! Now, we can't do a
cout right here, at the class level we'd get this error "illegal for class", but we
are allowed, immediately inside our main() method, to go something like std::
cout << BCGame
.GetCurrentTry() for example. Let's see what comes out!
666. So, the constructor
value has been used! Why? Well, because we
have instantiated a new game object here, and
initially these values would have been used but they got overridden
by the constructor at runtime. So, these values are the compile
time values and these are the runtime values. OK, so
we don't want both! It's kind of confusing, it's not clear what's where!
So, if we're going to use a constructor to set these values, we don't want to be setting
them here. So, let's take away the initializations here.
And if you want to, you can sign post yourself. "// see constructor
for initialization". OK, so you construct
here, if on each subsequent play of the game
you didn't need to change these things, but we do, every time you go around the main game loop
and PlayGame(), we're going to need to reset the game somehow. So,
let's change these to MyCurrentTry is 1
and MyMaxTries is say 5, for now.
OK, let's just run and see how this works!
"Try 1. Enter your guess:". OK, so this is running and when we
first construct a new game it has got values that are set
here, at runtime, in the constructor. That's cool! You clear on
what's going on there? When the thing pops out the mold, the constructor is called automatically.
It's like a factory leaving check
and these things are set. That's fine! But we're also going to want a Reset()
method aren't we? If we look here in PlayGame(), then
we're going to want... The first thing we do in PlayGame() actually is
to reset the game state, because remember, we play the game multiple times. We print an intro,
PlayGame(), bPlayAgain. OK, so we're going to want to go
BCGame.Reset();
at this point. So, if we're going to have a Reset method, that's going to do exactly the
same as the constructor isn't it? The Reset() method is just going to  set
these things and possibly some new things for now. So, I've got a simple
challenge for you. I want you to write the Reset() method and call it from the constructor.
it's just going to do this, so literally we've got a cut and paste operation
for you, pretty much.  So, I want you to write and test Reset(). Initialize all the
member variables. Set the MaxTries to 8 instead of 5. Use the appropriate
constant for the magic number, i.e. the number 8. Remember how we did that earlier?
We said we don't ever assign numbers above 2, unless they're going to
a constant. And check that it works, by using cout as you need to, to
convince yourself that the Reset() method is working, and as a bonus,
call Reset() from the constructor. But if you don't know what that means, then just don't do it, and then you'll see my
solution in a second. OK, see you in a second!
Welcome back! So literally, I'm going to take these guys here,
pop them into Reset(), MyCurrentTry, and MyMaxTries.
I am going to set max tries
to 8, and then, I'm going to call Reset()
from the constructor. That's fine! You're delegating the job
effectively, down to this Reset(), which is really neat now, because we don't have any initialization
here. We don't even have any initialization in the constructor.
The constructor is so simple that if we want to, we can write things all on one line,
like this. So, what does Reset() do? Well, you can right-click on
it, Go To Definition, and we can go and see what Reset() does. Cool!
That answers that question! What are the initial values? So,
this says see the constructor for initialization. We have a look at the constructor, and it just
reuses Reset(). So actually, all eyes point to Reset() as being the only thing,
you know, entire code that resets the game, and it's a very natural and clear
place to look. So, we're being good, we're doing a constructor,
but we're reusing this code. A place for everything and everything in it's place. There's only one
place in your entire code that these things exist. Now, there is one thing I want
to do, which is just move some lines around a little bit, space a couple of things
out, and get rid of my nasty magic number. Const expression remember, because this
is known at compile time. MAX_TRIES = 8;
and this is just getting in a very good habit to say
to our selves, if we're going to use magic numbers then right now this is
basically a waste of time. But what's likely
to happen with your code is you end up with a bigger and bigger gap, when you define that constant
and where you lost it later, and if that happens
then it means, in future if you want to access max tries, it's available
across your entire program there, you can see its value, and you know that if you ever need to change
max tries, you only need to search for it and
find it once in your entire program. That's the whole point about these magic
numbers, right. So, I group those two together, because they kind of logically go together. I could
go to Find and Replace, Quick Find, MAX_TRIES, and
however big my code is, I would be able to quite quickly find the definition
of MAX_TRIES and change it just there.
Cool! Congratulations! Hopefully you get the most important part of this video,
which is that you declare a constructor like this and then you
define a constructor to do what you like and that it's OK to call one of your own
methods, especially something like a Reset() method. And then, that means that when the
object is constructed, the values are known, and when you run
Reset(), you get the same values in this case. Cool, see you soon!